---
layout: post
title: Use ssh to connect to AWS EC2 instance
author: AlanZeng
date: 2024-08-20 00:12:30 -0800
tags: Development
---

# Use ssh to connect to AWS EC2 instance

## 1: Create a new key pair

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/).
2. In the navigation pane, choose **Key Pairs**.
3. Choose **Create key pair**.
4. For **Key pair name**, enter a name for the new key pair, and then choose **Create key pair**.
5. Your browser will download the private key file automatically. The private key file is automatically downloaded by your browser. The base file name is the name you specified as the name of your key pair, and the file name extension is .pem. Save the private key file in a safe place.
6. Choose **Close**.
7. **Important**: You can create a key pair only once. Be sure to save the private key file to your computer. You'll need to provide the name of your key pair when you launch an instance and the corresponding private key each time you connect to the instance.

## 2: Connect to your instance

1. Open a terminal window.
2. Use the `cd` command to navigate to the directory where your private key file is located.
3. Use the following command to set the permissions of your private key file so that only you can read it:

```bash
chmod 400 /path/my-key-pair.pem
```

4. Use the following command to connect to your instance. Replace `ec2-user` with the appropriate user name for your AMI. 
- For Amazon Linux 2 or the Amazon Linux AMI, the user name is `ec2-user`. 
- For a CentOS AMI, the user name is `centos`. 
- For a Debian AMI, the user name is `admin`. 
- For a Fedora AMI, the user name is `ec2-user` or `fedora`. 
- For a RHEL AMI, the user name is `ec2-user` or `root`. 
- For a SUSE AMI, the user name is `ec2-user` or `root`. 
- For an Ubuntu AMI, the user name is `ubuntu`. *Here my OS is Ubuntu.*
- Otherwise, if `ec2-user` and `root` don't work, check with your AMI provider.

```bash
ssh -i /path/my-key-pair.pem user_name@ip_address
```

## 3: (Optional) Connect to your instance using a password

1. Open a terminal window.
2. Use the following command to connect to your instance. 
```bash
ssh user_name@my-instance-ip
```

#### **I meet `Permission denied (publickey)` error.**
To fix it.
##### Step1: Firstly I need to use the previous command to connect to my instance. 

```bash
ssh -i /path/my-key-pair.pem user_name@ip_address
```

##### Step2: Set up a password for the user using passwd command along with the username.

```bash
sudo passwd ubuntu
```

##### Step 3: Edit sshd_config file.

```bash
sudo vim /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

Find the Line containing `PasswordAuthentication` parameter and change its value from `no` to `yes`.

```bash
PasswordAuthentication yes
```

If you want to set up `root` login, find `PermitRootLogin` parameter and change its value from `prohibit-password` to `yes`

```bash
PermitRootLogin yes
```

After this changes save file and exit.

##### Step 4: Restart the SSH service.

```bash
service ssh restart ## for ubuntu

service sshd restart ## for centos
```

##### Step 5: Add the .pem file to Local ssh.

```bash
chmod 400 /path/my-key-pair.pem
ssh-add -k /path/my-key-pair.pem
```

##### Step 6: Now you can connect to your instance using a password.

```bash
ssh user_name@my-instance-ip
```



