---
layout: post
title: GRE Issue Template
description: GRE Issue Template
date: 2024-09-07
tags: GRE-Learning
---

# GRE Issue Template

> *Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the statement and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider ways in which the statement might or might not hold true and explain how these considerations shape your position.*

- While discussing the topic of <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[issue]</span>, I partially agree with the author’s stance. However, the author takes the argument to an extreme, which becomes untenable and overlooks other critical factors that are likely to influence the issue. A closer examination reveals that <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[your viewpoint]</span> holds greater merit in terms of factual accuracy and logical consistency. Therefore, my analysis and perspectives are as follows:

- In a sense, I acknowledge the assertion made by the author. While the assertion contains some evident flaws, it does offer certain advantages when applied to specific cases, which is undeniable given their rationality in the context of our daily experience. However, <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[list reasons for opposing viewpoint/differing viewpoint]</span> provides a counterpoint. Although these reasons may hold some validity, they are limited in certain respects upon thorough examination.

- On the other hand, recognizing that a more appropriate choice must incorporate aspects of <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[issue]</span> as comprehensively as possible, I have to point out my contention with the speaker who, while overstating <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[xxx]</span>, ignores some paramount factors. In short, a deeper analysis reveals the advantages of <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[your viewpoint]</span>. Firstly, <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[list reasons supporting your viewpoint]</span>. These reasons not only align more closely with common sense but also hold universal applicability across various contexts. Secondly, further <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[list reasons supporting your viewpoint]</span> to strengthen the argument. Thus, considering all aspects, it can be concluded that <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[your viewpoint]</span> is more persuasive.

- In conclusion, issue of <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[topic]</span> is a complex one resulting in that there are no easy or certain answers. The diversity of personal experiences and emotional concerns among people from different cultures means that a thousand individuals might hold a thousand opinions. According to me, while the <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[opposing/differing]</span> viewpoint may have some validity, a thorough analysis reveals that <span style="background-color: lightblue; font-style: italic;">[your viewpoint]</span> is more reasonable and feasible.

